ACL was already implemented in two different released versions of VPP. 
And there are implemented two different packet classification algorithms in these two different version, 
however we decided to use a different algorithm in our contribution:

* Linear search in VPP 17.04
* Tuple Space Search in VPP 17.10
* TupleMerge in our contribution 

----

Except for tm_vpp1710, where is contained the ACL plugin implemented in our contribution. In the other directory are contained the only files modified from the original version (released on gerrit) in order to adapt the framework within our methodology: 

Firstly, the framework should have the ability to parse the synthetic ruleset generated by ClassBench. In
particular, the native VPP allows to create ACL only through the command line interface where each single rule
has to be written in line. This function is not so flexible, since the command line interface has a limited buffer
memory where it stores inputs it receives, leading to not install an arbitrary number of rules within VPP.
Therefore, we extended the command line interface in order to accept external file where are stored rules we
want to install in the framework. We created a function that parse the file given in input where are stored rules
formatted in the same way that ClassBench produces the synthetic ruleset.
Secondly, the framework needs to be able to compute metrics (as the classification time, the matching index,
etc..) that can be measured only from the internal code. In particular, we take advantage of using an already
defined internal service called “VPPinfra event logger”. The VPPinfra event logger provides very lightweight
(sub-100ns), precisely time-stamped event-logging services. It allows to define a customizable data structure
where store the informations you need to log. It can memorize up to 131k events and each event can support
up to 20 bytes of data. 
